ladies and gentlemen the President of
the United States and mrs. Reagan
[Music]
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the United
States of America
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
Oh
Minister this can poach the otters
oh hey
[Music]
Prime Minister Thatcher here's a story
from our Old West it said that a cowboy
went riding one day and suddenly
stumbled into the Grand Canyon and he's
supposed to have said Wow
something sure has happened here Prime
Minister Thatcher when we contemplate
the world as it is today and how it was
when we first met here eight years ago
we too have a right to say something
sure has happened when we first met on
these grounds in 1981 economic crisis we
said both our country's inflation and
unemployment were reaching dangerously
disruptive levels the aggressive designs
of squalid dictators large and small
were seen everywhere totalitarian
expansion was underway on four
continents terrorism was growing in the
face of the most massive arms buildup in
human history our own defenses had
fallen into disrepair and decline a new
nuclear missile was aimed at Europe and
Asia there was talk of unilateral
cutbacks and American withdrawals and
nuclear freezes and questions about the
alliance our alliance the great alliance
built was such a difficulty and daring
since the last world war was in grave
danger all of these problems spoke to an
even deeper crisis a crisis of faith the
crisis of will among the democracies
here in our own nation there were those
who questioned whether our democratic
institutions could survive whether the
modern world had made them obsolete
well now it's changed now the excitement
and vigour and energy in the world is
with the cause of freedom as the United
States and Great Britain and other free
nations have prospered we have seen in
almost Newtonian revolution in the
science of economics we are learning
that the way to prosperity is not more
bureaucracy and redistribution of wealth
but less government and more freedom for
the entrepreneur and for the creativity
of the individual change extraordinary
changes
on the world and that's why at this
moment I'm Minister Thatcher we're
especially glad to be welcoming you here
to our shores and to have this
opportunity to acknowledge the special
role that you and the people of Great
Britain have made in achieving this
remarkable change it was my privilege
last June shortly after my return from
Moscow to note in a speech at Guildhall
your extraordinary role in the
revitalization of freedom today and
welcoming you to these shores I have I
and the American people again restate
our gratitude in the critical hour
Margaret Thatcher and the people of
Great Britain stood fast in freedom's
defense and upheld all the noblest of
your island nations traditions yours was
the part of courage and resolve and
vision Bismarck reflected once that the
supreme fact of the 19th century was
that Great Britain and the United States
shared the same language and surely
future historians will note that a
supreme fact of this century was that
Great Britain and the United States
shared the same cause the cause of human
freedom together we've come a long way
in striving for that core cause even in
a terrible disappointment following the
last World War when we realized all we
had striven for in that great conflict
world peace and freedom would once again
elude us and that we would have to begin
again and stand together again and
facing the Menace of war and
totalitarian tyranny even then we did
not lose heart and stand together we
have when first you were here Prime
Minister Thatcher we referred to a
decade fraught with danger we can hope
today that in meeting those dangers we
have transformed this decade into a
turning point a turning point for our
age and for all time
in continuing this work it is profoundly
reassuring to me and to all who care
about freedom that you will continue to
share with America your vision in your
steady hand and this is especially
critical to us at this moment of
transition in our government so whatever
the future may hold today the American
people expressed to you our thanks our
affection and our determination to stand
with you until freedom has triumphed Sir
Winston put it very well when he said
the day may dawn when Fairplay love for
one's fellow man respect for justice and
freedom will enable tormented
generations to march forth serene and
triumphant meanwhile never flinch never
weary never despair mr. then may I thank
you warmly for those words of welcome
and for this marvelous ceremony which I
shall never forget it is a great honor
to be your last official guest after
eight historic years of your presidency
one of the greatest in America's history
it's an opportunity to affirm and knew
the deep friendships not only between
ourselves but between the British and
American people's an opportunity to
salute all that you have accomplished
over these eight years on behalf of this
great nation and of free people
everywhere and an opportunity to look
ahead to the bright promise of the
future mr. president when you welcome me
to the White House on my first official
visit to Washington under your
presidency you forecast two things first
that the decade would be less dangerous
if the West maintained the strength
required for peace and second that
Britain and America would stand
side-by-side in that endeavor
both promises have been honored and
honored handsomely we thank you for
being such a staunch and loyal ally and
friend to our country together our
nations have faced the challenges of our
time and have not flinched we forged
ahead with strengthening the peace
spreading prosperity and safeguarding
liberty your conviction mr. president
that the earnest sure peace is one
founded on a strong defense has enabled
us to take a first historic step in the
reduction of nuclear arms you sir have
presided over a period of economic
expansion unparalleled in peacetime in
recent American history but above all
mr. president you have restored faith in
the American dream a dream of boundless
opportunity built on enterprise
individual effort and personal
generosity as a result respect for
America stands high in the world today
and thanks to your courage and your
leadership the fire of individual
freedom burns more brightly not just in
America not just in the West but right
across the world we in Britain mr.
president have been proud to be your
partners in that great adventure we've
counted it a privilege to join you in
enlarging freedom and furthering the
democratic way of life 200 years ago
Tom Paine told the founders of this
great nation we have it in our power to
begin the world over again mr. president
the office which you hold is the
greatest in the world but it is the man
who holds that office user who has
enabled us to begin the world over again
we salute and thank you for it
[Applause]
oh boy - ceremony
[Music]